---
layout: post
title: Loading .x files the easy way
category: 游戏技术
tags: DirectX
keywords: 
description: 
---

<span
style="widows:2;text-transform:none;text-indent:0px;display:inline !important;font:16px 'Times New Roman', Times, serif;white-space:normal;orphans:2;float:none;letter-spacing:normal;color:#000000;word-spacing:0px;-webkit-text-size-adjust:auto;-webkit-text-stroke-width:0px;">
</span>

Introduction {style="line-height:normal;widows:2;text-transform:none;background-color:#b7b4df;font-variant:normal;font-style:normal;text-indent:0px;font-family:'Times New Roman', Times, serif;white-space:normal;orphans:2;letter-spacing:normal;color:#000000;font-size:16pt;word-spacing:0px;-webkit-text-size-adjust:auto;-webkit-text-stroke-width:0px;"}
------------

These notes describe how you can easily load a .x file into a mesh
object and render it. This method looses any hierarchy information in
the mesh file and hence any animation. If you wish to keep this
information you will need to load the .x file using an alternative
function as described in [x file
loading](http://www.toymaker.info/Games/html/load_x_hierarchy.html).

Loading {style="line-height:normal;widows:2;text-transform:none;background-color:#b7b4df;font-variant:normal;font-style:normal;text-indent:0px;font-family:'Times New Roman', Times, serif;white-space:normal;orphans:2;letter-spacing:normal;color:#000000;font-size:16pt;word-spacing:0px;-webkit-text-size-adjust:auto;-webkit-text-stroke-width:0px;"}
-------

Loading an .x file involves the use of the<span
class="Apple-converted-space"> </span>[<span
style="color:#990000;">D3DX</span>](http://www.toymaker.info/Games/html/load_x_simply.html#)<span
class="Apple-converted-space"> </span>mesh object and its interfaces. As
usual we must declare a mesh pointer.

<span class="Code"
style="font-family:Fixedsys, monospace;color:#000066;font-size:12pt;font-weight:normal;">LPD3DXMESH
mesh; // Our mesh object</span>

To load the X file we use a<span
class="Apple-converted-space"> </span>[<span
style="color:#990000;">D3DX</span>](http://www.toymaker.info/Games/html/load_x_simply.html#)<span
class="Apple-converted-space"> </span>function called<span
class="Apple-converted-space"> </span><span class="Code"
style="font-family:Fixedsys, monospace;color:#000066;font-size:12pt;font-weight:normal;">**D3DXLoadMeshFromX**.</span><span
class="Apple-converted-space"> </span>This function creates an instance
of the mesh object and loads all the geometry. It flattens any frame
hierarchy in the file and separates the data by material and texture. It
stores it internally in what is known as a subset, each subset has a set
of geometry that should be drawn using a certain texture and material.
You have to maintain the materials and textures yourself, to access them
you use a temporary material buffer. An example may explain this better:

<span class="Code"
style="font-family:Fixedsys, monospace;color:#000066;font-size:12pt;font-weight:normal;">LPD3DXBUFFER
materialBuffer;\
 DWORD numMaterials;            // Note: DWORD is a typedef for unsigned
long\
 LPD3DXMESH mesh;</span>

<span class="Code"
style="font-family:Fixedsys, monospace;color:#000066;font-size:12pt;font-weight:normal;">//
Load the mesh from the specified file\
 HRESULT hr=D3DXLoadMeshFromX(filename, D3DXMESH\_SYSTEMMEM,<span
class="Apple-converted-space"> </span>\
                              gD3dDevice, NULL,<span
class="Apple-converted-space"> </span>\
                              &materialBuffer,NULL, &numMaterials,<span
class="Apple-converted-space"> </span>\
                              &mesh );</span>

Note: if the x file resides in memory you can use the equivalent
function<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span><span class="Code"
style="font-family:Fixedsys, monospace;color:#000066;font-size:12pt;font-weight:normal;">D3DXLoadMeshFromXInMemory</span>

The above creates an instance of the mesh object and loads the file
geometry into the mesh object. Additionally it takes a pointer to a
variable that will be filled with the number of materials in the
mesh<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span><span class="Code"
style="font-family:Fixedsys, monospace;color:#000066;font-size:12pt;font-weight:normal;">(numMaterials)</span><span
class="Apple-converted-space"> </span>and a pointer to a material
buffer<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span><span class="Code"
style="font-family:Fixedsys, monospace;color:#000066;font-size:12pt;font-weight:normal;">(materialBuffer).</span><span
class="Apple-converted-space"> </span>This material buffer provides us
with access to the materials and textures in the .x file. We need to
loop through this material buffer extracting the material properties and
texture filenames and load the textures our selves.

<span class="Code"
style="font-family:Fixedsys, monospace;color:#000066;font-size:12pt;font-weight:normal;">D3DXMATERIAL\*
d3dxMaterials =
(D3DXMATERIAL\*)materialBuffer-\>GetBufferPointer();</span>

The above is a bit of a nasty cast required to get the buffer pointer to
be a pointer to<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span><span
class="Code"
style="font-family:Fixedsys, monospace;color:#000066;font-size:12pt;font-weight:normal;">D3DXMATERIAL.</span><span
class="Apple-converted-space"> </span>Don't get confused between the
material buffer above with type<span
class="Apple-converted-space"> </span><span class="Code"
style="font-family:Fixedsys, monospace;color:#000066;font-size:12pt;font-weight:normal;">D3DXMATERIAL</span><span
class="Apple-converted-space"> </span>and the material used before
rendering<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span><span class="Code"
style="font-family:Fixedsys, monospace;color:#000066;font-size:12pt;font-weight:normal;">(D3DMATERIAL9).\
 </span>The above is simply a .x file buffer that we extract the
information from into our own materials.\
 The **<span style="color:#e53333;">next step </span>**is to create two
arrays to hold our material and texture pointers. When creating a class
to load .x files these variables should be made member variables of the
class:

<span class="Code"
style="font-family:Fixedsys, monospace;color:#000066;font-size:12pt;font-weight:normal;">D3DMATERIAL9 \*meshMaterials
= new D3DMATERIAL9[numMaterials];\
 LPDIRECT3DTEXTURE9 \*meshTextures  = new
LPDIRECT3DTEXTURE9[numMaterials];</span>\
\
 Now we need to loop through the materials held in the .x file material
buffer and copy them into our material array. We also must load the
textures (if provided) and store pointers to these textures in our
texture array. Remember a .x file may have many materials and textures.
You cannot assume that every material will have an associated texture,
some may have no texture at all where by your texture pointer should be
set to<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span><span class="Code"
style="font-family:Fixedsys, monospace;color:#000066;font-size:12pt;font-weight:normal;">NULL</span>.

<span class="Code"
style="font-family:Fixedsys, monospace;color:#000066;font-size:12pt;font-weight:normal;">for
(DWORD i=0; i\<m\_numMaterials; i++)\
 {</span>

<span class="Code"
style="font-family:Fixedsys, monospace;color:#000066;font-size:12pt;font-weight:normal;">}</span>\
  

Finally since we are now done with the .x file material buffer we need
to release it:

<span class="Code"
style="font-family:Fixedsys, monospace;color:#000066;font-size:12pt;font-weight:normal;">pD3DXMtrlBuffer-\>Release();</span>

*Note:*<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span>the code above does
no error checking on return<span
class="Apple-converted-space"> </span><span class="Code"
style="font-family:Fixedsys, monospace;color:#000066;font-size:12pt;font-weight:normal;">HRESULTS.</span><span
class="Apple-converted-space"> </span>You must check the return values
for errors especially when you load the texture as it may be it cannot
be found (this is a common cause of problems when people first use .x
files). It may be that you need to alter the path contained in the
texture filename to your own data path. See<span
class="Apple-converted-space"> </span>[String
Handling](http://www.toymaker.info/Games/html/string_handling.html#extractFilename).

Rendering {style="line-height:normal;widows:2;text-transform:none;background-color:#b7b4df;font-variant:normal;font-style:normal;text-indent:0px;font-family:'Times New Roman', Times, serif;white-space:normal;orphans:2;letter-spacing:normal;color:#000000;font-size:16pt;word-spacing:0px;-webkit-text-size-adjust:auto;-webkit-text-stroke-width:0px;"}
---------

We now have a mesh object that contains the geometry. We also have an
array containing materials and textures for each of the subsets in the
geometry.To render is therefore quite simple:

After setting our world matrix we loop through the subsets in the mesh
setting the material and texture and calling the mesh interface<span
class="Apple-converted-space"> </span><span class="Code"
style="font-family:Fixedsys, monospace;color:#000066;font-size:12pt;font-weight:normal;">DrawSubset</span><span
class="Apple-converted-space"> </span>function:

<span class="Code"
style="font-family:Fixedsys, monospace;color:#000066;font-size:12pt;font-weight:normal;">for
(DWORD i=0; i\<m\_numMaterials; i++)\
 {\
    // Set the material and texture for this subset\
   gD3dDevice-\>SetMaterial(&meshMaterials[i]);\
   gD3dDevice-\>SetTexture(0,meshTextures[i]);\
 </span>

<span class="Code"
style="font-family:Fixedsys, monospace;color:#000066;font-size:12pt;font-weight:normal;"> 
// Draw the mesh subset\
   m\_mesh-\>DrawSubset( i );\
 }</span>

As usual for more information please look in the DirectX help file. For
information about accessing the vertex and index data contained in the
mesh and other answers please look at the areas in the main<span
class="Apple-converted-space"> </span>[.x
files](http://www.toymaker.info/Games/html/3d_models.html)<span
class="Apple-converted-space"> </span>section.

Advanced Notes {style="line-height:normal;widows:2;text-transform:none;background-color:#b7b4df;font-variant:normal;font-style:normal;text-indent:0px;font-family:'Times New Roman', Times, serif;white-space:normal;orphans:2;letter-spacing:normal;color:#000000;font-size:16pt;word-spacing:0px;-webkit-text-size-adjust:auto;-webkit-text-stroke-width:0px;"}
--------------

Since<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span><span class="Code"
style="font-family:Fixedsys, monospace;color:#000066;font-size:12pt;font-weight:normal;">D3DXLoadMeshFromX</span><span
class="Apple-converted-space"> </span>flattens the 3D object frame
hierarchy we cannot animate our models. To do so requires loading the .x
file, maintaining the hierarchy and loading the animation key frames. If
you are interested you can see my advanced notes on this here :<span
class="Apple-converted-space"> </span>[X File
Animation](http://www.toymaker.info/Games/html/load_x_hierarchy.html)

There are many functions that can be called on a mesh. For example you
can call a function to calculate its bounding box. Also you could call a
function to cast a ray into the mesh and see if it hits (for collision
detection). You can also optimise the mesh and save it to a file. Look
in the DirectX help for a full list of functions.

When rendering our subsets if any of them are transparent (contain alpha
information) you should render them last after rendering the ones
without alpha. This is required for the blending to work correctly. So
you could have two loops, the first one renders all subsets where the
material has a diffuse alpha component of 1.0f (no transparency) and the
second one renders all those with an alpha component less than 1.0f
(some transparency).







