---
layout: post
title: plist文件标识png图集的位置信息
category: 编程开发
tags: mac IOS cocos2dx normal-knowledge
keywords: png plist
description: 
---

## frame

\{\{x,y},{width,height} },the sprite location within the sprite-sheet as position and size values.

## offest

Most of the current texture packing tools remove transparent areas of the image before they pack it. Imagine you got a sprite with the size of 100x100, but on the left and right there are 4 columns of totally transparent pixels. The packing tool will remove these to save space, but store offset and sourceSize, so that your sprite will be 100x100 pixels in your game. Note that the offset is always relative to the center of the sprite (comparing the center of the cropped and the center of the original sprite).

## rotated

Whether or not the sprite has been rotated within the sprite-sheet (if this is true, the sprite is rotated 90 degrees clockwise).

## sourceColorRect

The rectangle with actual color information inside your source sprite. If you take the 100x100 image described above (with 4px transparent pixels on the left and on the right), the sourceColorRect will be

 \{\{4,0},{92,100}} ({x,y}{width,height}).
 
## sourceSize

This is the size of the original sprite (beware that some texture-packers can add padding to this if you chose to).

## reaTextureFileName and textureFileName[More](http://forum.cocos2d-swift.org/t/cocos2d-and-universal-graphics/2944/4)

* reaTextureFileName matches the actual file name,eg:filename-hd.png,filename.png,etc
* textureFileName is the reaTextureFileName without --xxx extensions.(eg:in reaTextureFileName is filename-hd.png,textureFileName is filename.png)

## format[More](http://zengrong.net/post/1981.htm)

* 0 : 代表flash版本
* 1 : Zwoptex 0.4b以前支持
* 2 : Zwoptex 1.0以后支持，与format1的区别在于支持旋转；
* 3 : 属性名称进行了大幅修改，Zwoptex1.0.2之后支持。

cocos2dx中的纹理定义格式,是以Zwoptex生成的格式为标准的.
TexturePacker生成的for cocos2d plist格式与Zwoptex生成的format为2的格式相同。



## Reference
* <http://stackoverflow.com/questions/14554846/what-are-offset-and-sourcecolorrect-keys-texturepacker-plist-schema>
* <http://gamedev.stackexchange.com/questions/18758/in-cocos2ds-plist-output-what-are-offset-colorsourcerect-and-these-other>
* <http://blog.hsin.tw/2013/texturepacker-free-lisence/>